# SI507_Final_Project
SI507_Final_Project

## Project Code
How to get API Keys:
* Get the OMDB API key here: https://www.omdbapi.com/apikey.aspx. Simply fill in the email address and submit to get your API key.
* Get the IMDb API key here: https://imdb-api.com/api. Register an account, and the key will appear in your profile.

How to Run the code:
* Replace the OMDB API key and IMDb API key with your keys in movie_search.py
* Simply run the Python 3 file final_proj.py, and enjoy the movie search by inputting your query and interactive option in the command-line tool

Required packages and software:
* Plotly
* Chrome Web Browser

## Data Sources
* IMDb-API
Base URL: "https://imdb-api.com/en/API/SearchMovie/" 
Accessed by requesting through API
JSON file format cached locally
* OMDB-API
Base URL: "http://www.omdbapi.com/"
Accessed by requesting through API
JSON file format cached locally
* IMDB Spoiler Dataset
Download from Kaggle Dataset
JSON file format. File missing comma between JSON object, need to fix the format

### Summary of Data:
Three data sources
* IMDb-API cache: tested ~20 keyword search query, will contain more while using. Every search query will retrieve about 10 most related movies.
* OMDB-API cache: retrieved ~100 movie information, will contain more while using.
* IMDB Spoiler Dataset: 1572 movie records available

### Description of records (Key attributes)
#### IMDb-API record: brief information about the movie
* Id: IMDb movie id, used to match movie record in OMDB cache
* Image: Link to the image of the movie
* Title: movie title
* Description: released year

#### OMDB-API record: detailed information about the movie
* Title: movie title
* Year: released year
* Rated: Motion picture content rating system
* Runtime: How long is this movie (min)
* Genre: movie genre
* Director: movie director
* Writer: names of play writer
* Actors: names of actors
* Language: movie language
* Country: which country produced the movie
* Plot: movie plot
* Released: Released Date
* imdbRating: IMDb rating score for the movies

#### IMDB Spoiler Dataset: detailed plot summary and plot synopsis of the movie
* Movie_id: IMDb movie id
* Plot_summary: summary for the movie
* Plot_synopsis: synopsis of the movie

## Data Structure

All my data is stored as tree structures in separate JSON files from the different data source.

Function load_cache() and save_cache() in python file load_save.py constructs trees from cached JSON files and stored data as JSON files.
* all_cache: JSON file contains brief data information stored in the tree structure.
* key_cache: JSON file contains search query and response results, stored in the tree structure
* omdb_cache: JSON file contains detailed data information stored in the tree structure. 
* IMDB Spoiler Dataset: JSON file contains plot summary and plot synopsis of movies, stored in the tree structure

## Interaction and Presentation Options

This project can help users search the movies based on some keywords. Detailed movie information will be generated and displayed in an HTML file.  Users can also visualize some stats related to these movies and compare for some interesting findings. Users can repeatedly search for new queries without restarting the program. All search records and related information will be cached for faster retrieval in future use.

To use this project, just simply run final_proj.py in python3. It will prompt and ask the user to type in the search query (keywords) for movies. It will search the result through the API and return a top 10 list of related movies. Users have options to check the detailed information for a single movie and view all movies at once. The program will automatically generate an HTML file containing this information and open it in the Chrome web browser (Only tested in MacOS). After viewing the web page, users can choose to check other movies if needed. It can also skip viewing the detailed information about the movie and go to the next step. Users now have the option to visualize related data generated by using Plotly and compare different movies. There are four visual options: run time comparison, box office comparison, IMDb rating comparison, and IMDb voting comparison. The program will automatically open visualization in a new webpage. This step can also be skipped if you don’t want to visualize this data. In the end, the user can choose to start a new search on movies or quit the program. All cached files will be saved for future use.
